## ***Resolving Carryover in Silicate Analysis on pFIONA using a Benchtop Progammable Flow Injection (pFI) unit.***
- Carryover between absorbance measurements has been identified as a problem measuring silicate (SiO₄) in seawater using programmable flow injection (pFI). Analytical bias from carryover in the programmable Flow Injection Ocean Nutrient Analyzer (pFIONA), which is the autonomous version of a pFI benchtop unit, is the subject of this study. This project statistically shows that carryover and the relative standard deviation (RSD) have been significantly improved to an acceptable level < 3%.
- Initial tests were performed indicating carryover existed between absorbance measurement 1 and 2 of ~7%. Using a "low-to-high" method to produce a large carryover signal for a comprehensive analysis, was conducted using a series or treatments. The treatments ranged from flushing the system with the milli-Q carrier to the addition of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) to reagents and the carrier. 
- Statistical tests such as Wilcoxon, Kruskal-Wallis and the Ordinary Least Squares regression models statistically show that adding SDS to the molybdate and milli-Q carrier significantly reduces carryover and improve the RSD across all absorbance measurements. Carryover and RSD were not only reduced below the 3% threshold, but were reduced well beyond that. RSD reached a point that it was indistinguishable across all the absorbance measurements. 
- Platforms like pFIONA rely on the ability to measure ocean nutrients at a high-level of precision in the most efficient way. Previously the workaround to the carryover issue was to perform four measurements, using only the mean of the last three. Although this proved to be precise, it reduced deployment times for pFIONA. By reducing the measurements from four to three by solving the carryover issue, this study improved precision and reduced waste and reagent use by 25% improving pFIONA's core mission. 
